(ID=3) Engineering Requirements
(ID=3.1) Functional Requirements: This section is subdivided into ten main subsections: InitializeOperational Parameters, Initialize System, Validate Temperature,Monitor Temperature, Determine Utilization, Generate H/C Signal,Generate Alarm Data, Generate Event Data, Change ThermostatSetting, and Generate Reports. Each subsection describes thesoftware requirement for that individual software component ofthe THEMAS system.
(ID=3.1.1) Initialize Operational Parameters: The following sections describe the Initialize System componentof the THEMAS system.
(ID=3.1.1.1) Load H/C Unit Definitions (SRS -001) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall control t he heating and cooling unitsthat are defined as part of the THEMAS system. The definitionsof the individual heating and cooling systems reside in aninitialization file. The system shall read this file and thedefinitions shall be derived from the initialization data in thefile. Input: Initialization Data Processing: The THEMAS system shall use the information contained in theinitialization data file to determine which heating and coolingunits are part of the THEMAS system. Ther e is one heating andcooling unit that corresponds to one thermostat in each of fourquadrants on each of three floors of the office building. Output: Operational Parameters
(ID=3.1.1.2) Load Thermostat Definitions (SRS -002) Introduction: Each thermostat shall have a unique identifier by which thatthermostat is identified in the THEMAS system. This procedurewill load these definitions into the THEMAS software. Input: Initialization Data Processing: Each quadrant of each floor shall have a thermostat which is tobe used to provide temperature data to the THEMAS system. The initialization file shall contain a unique identifier for eachthermostat that the system is to monitor. These identifiersshall be read from the initialization file and loaded into the THEMAS system during the initialization process. Output: Operational Parameters
(ID=3.1.1.3) Load Utilization Parameters (SRS -003) Introduction: There shall be a maximum number of heating or cooling u nits thatcan be on at any given time. This procedure loads the maximumnumber of concurrently running units allowed. Input: Initialization Data Processing: The maximum number of heating or cooling units that can runconcurrently shall reside in an initialization file. The maximumnumber of concurrently running units shall be read from theinitialization file and stored in the THEMAS system. Output: Utilization Parameters
(ID=3.1.1.4) Set Trigger Values (SRS -004) Introduction: The trigger value is used in combination with the currenttemperature to determine when a heating or cooling unit shall beturned on or off. Input: Initialization Data Processing: The trigger values shall reside in an initialization file. Thisprocedure shall read the initialization file and establish thetrigger value from the data in that file. Output: Operational Parameters
(ID=3.1.1.5) Set Overtemp Values (SRS -005) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall ensure the temperature reported by agiven thermostat shall not exceed a maximum deviation value of 3degrees Fahrenheit. Input: Initialization Data Processing: The overtemperature values shall reside in an initializationfile. This procedure shall read the initialization file andestablish the overtemperature value from the data in that file. Output: Operational Parameters
(ID=3.1.1.6) Establish Valid Temperature Range (SRS -006) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall only respond to temperatures that arewithin a reasonable value. Input: Initialization Data Processing: The valid temperature range value shall reside in aninitialization file. This procedure shall read theinitialization file and establish the valid temperature rangefrom the data in it. Output: Operational Parameters
(ID=3.1.2) Initialize System (SRS-007) Introduction: When the THEMAS system is initialized, it shall first turn offall the heating and cooling units. Then, it shall check all thethermostats and determine if any thermostat’s settings require aheating or cooling unit to be turned on back on. Input: Operational  Parameters Processing: This process shall first determine a known state of all theheating and cooling units by issuing a request to turn off allthe units. It shall then read the current temperature values andcurrent temperature settings of each thermostat. If the settingsreflect a need for a heating or cooling unit to be turned o n, theprocess shall issue a request to turn on the appropriate unit. Output: H/C Request
(ID=3.1.3) Validate Temperature (SRS -008) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall only respond to temperatures from thethermostats that are within the specified valid range. Input: Operational ParametersTemperature Data Processing: Two types of temperature data shall be recognized from thethermostats: 1) the temperature setting and 2) the currenttemperature. This module shall process both types of data.A current temperature value that is received from an individualthermostat shall be compared to the valid temperature rangevalues. If the current temperature value is strictly less thanthe lower value of the valid temperature range or if the receivedtemperature value is strictly greater than the upper value of thevalid temperature range, then the THEMAS system shall identifythe current temperature value as an invalid temperature and shalloutput an invalid temperature status. Otherwise, the THEMASsystem shall output a valid temperature status.A temperature setting value that is received from an individualthermostat shall be compared to the valid temperature rangevalues. If the temperature setting value is strictly less thanthe lower value of the valid temperature range or if thetemperature setting value is strictly greater than the uppervalue of the valid temperature range, then the THEMAS systemshall identify the temperature setting as an invalid temperatureand shall output an invalid temperature status. Otherwise, theTHEMAS system shall realize the value for that thermostat’stemperature setting. Output: Invalid TemperatureValid Temperature
(ID=3.1.4) Monitor Temperature: The following sections describe the Monitor Temperature componentof the THEMAS system.
(ID=3.1.4.1) Determine Temperature Status (SRS -009) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall determine wh en a reported temperature ora changed temperature setting exceeds the limits set by theovertemperature values. Temperatures that exceed theovertemperature limits shall be reported as such. Temperaturesthat do not exceed these limits shall be output for subsequentprocessing. Input: Valid TemperaturesTrigger ValuesOvertemp Values Processing: The THEMAS system shall compare the reported temperature value tothe temperature setting and detect when the temperature valueexceeds the specified limits. To clarify these conditions, thefollowing definitions will be used:LO : Lower Overtemperature Value = TSET - ODUO : Upper Overtemperature Value = TSET + ODIf T = LO or UO = T then the THEMAS system shall recognize thiscondition as the temperature limit has been exceeded. In thiscase this process shall output the condition of the temperaturelimit having been exceeded.If LO = T = UO, then this process shall output thetemperature status. Output: Temperature Trigger ExceededTemperature Limit Exceeded
(ID=3.1.4.2) Determine H/C Mode (SRS -010) Introduction: When the current temperature value exceeds the currenttemperature setting by a pre -defined amount, the THEMAS systemshall activate the appropriate heating or cooling unit.s Input: Temperature Trigger Exceeded Processing: There are two conditions for each individual thermostat thatshall be tested for: 1) the thermostat’s settings are satisfiedand 2) the thermostat’s temperature indica tes it requires aheating or cooling unit to be turned on. To clarify theseconditions, the following definitions will be used:LT : Lower Trigger Value = TSET - TDUT : Upper Trigger Value = TSET + TDCondition 1: LT = T = UTThis condition indicates the thermostat’s current temperaturesetting is satisfied. If this condition is true, then the moduleshall output a request to turn off both the heating unit and thecooling unit.Condition 2: LO =  LT or UT T = UOThis condition the need for a heating or cooling unit to beturned on. If this condition is true, then this module shalloutput a request to turn on the heating unit if LO = T LT orthe cooling unit if UT T = UO. Output: H/C Request
(ID=3.1.5) Determine utilizations
(ID=3.1.5.1) Determine Status of All H/C Units (SRS -011) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall control each of the heating and coolingunits that are defined for the system. The THEMAS system shalllimit the number of heating or cooling units t hat may be runningsimultaneously. Input: Operational ParametersH/C Request Processing: The THEMAS system shall maintain the ON/OFF status of eachheating and cooling unit. When a request to turn on or off aheating or cooling unit, the following processing will occur.When a request to turn on a heating or cooling unit is received,the system shall determine if the request can be honored. If themaximum number of heating or cooling units is already running,the request will be added to a LIFO queue. If the maximum numberof heating or cooling units is not running, this process willgenerate a request to turn on the requested unit.When a request to turn off a heating or cooling unit is received,this process shall check the queue of waiting heating and coolingrequests. If the queue is not empty, this process shall removeone request from the LIFO queue and check the current state ofthe thermostat for which the queued request was made. If thatthermostat still needs a heating o r cooling unit turned on, thisprocess shall submit a request to turn that unit on. Output: Unit UnavailableH/C ON/OFF Request
(ID=3.1.5.2) Generate Unit Unavailable Event (SRS -012) Introduction: When a request for a heating unit or cooling to be turned isdenied, an event shall be generated and the THEMAS system shallrecord that event. The information in these events will be usedfor creating statistical reports. Input: Unit Unavailable Processing: This procedure shall realize the thermostat and heating orcooling information and use this information to generate aspecific system event. This system event shall consist of adescription of the event type (a request denied event), adesignation of the thermostat that made the request, and adesignation of the heating or cooling unit that was not turnedon. Output: System Event Data
(ID=3.1.5.3) Generate H/C Request (SRS -013) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall control the heating and cooling unitsthat are designated as part of the THEMAS system. Input: H/C ON/OFF Request Processing: When a request to turn on or off a heating or cooling unit ismade, this process shall generate the appropriate request tocarry out that request. This request shall include thedesignation of the heating or cooling unit and a flag to indicatewhether that unit is to be turned on or off. Output: Approved H/C Request
(ID=3.1.6) Generate H/C Signal (SRS -014) Introduction: Once a request to turn on or off a heating or cooling unit, theTHEMAS system shall provide the necessary control signal for theunit. This control signal shall also provide an indication ofthe unit’s status at the requesting thermostat. Input: Approved H/C Request Processing: This process shall recognize the values for the requested heatingor cooling unit and the ON or OFF status that is being requested.The necessary signal to the heating or cooling unit will begenerated. Since the interface to con trol the units has not beendefined, the part of this process that will issue the signal isdesignated as TBD(to be determined).In order to provide an indication of the status of the heating orcooling unit back to the requesting thermostat, this procedureshall output the status information of the heating or coolingunit.In order to provide an operational history and statisticalreports, this process shall generate an event each time a changeis made to the status of a heating or cooling unit. This ev entshall contain the identification of the heating or cooling unitwhose status is being changed. Output: Heating Unit SignalCooling Unit SignalUnit StatusSystem Events
(ID=3.1.7) Generate Alarm Data (SRS -015) Introduction: There are two events that shall result in an alarm condition: 1)an invalid temperature value is reported from a thermostat, or 2)the reported temperature has exceeded the defined limits. Thisprocess shall determine which alarm event is to be generated. Input: Invalid TemperatureTemperature Limit Exceeded Processing: When the THEMAS system detects a request for an alarm, thisprocess shall detect which of the two alarms are being requested.If the system detects an invalid temperature, this process shalloutput a continuous series of alternating 500 Hz and 700 Hz beepson the supervisor’s computer. Each beep shall have a three -quarter second duration. This series of beeps shall continueuntil the supervisor manually resets the alarm through thesupervisor’s interface window.If the system detects a temperature limit has been exceeded, thisprocess shall output a continuous series of alternating 1000 Hzand 1500 Hz beeps on the supervisor’s computer. Each beep shallhave a one-half second duration. This series of beeps shallcontinue until the supervisor manually resets the alarm throughthe supervisor’s interface window.Each time an alarm is requested, an alarm event shall berecorded. This event shall be used to provide operational andstatistical reports about the system. Output: Alarm DataAlarm Events
(ID=3.1.8) Generate Event Data (SRS -016) Introduction: For each event that is generated, the THEMAS system shallidentify each event and generate the appropriate event data. Input: Alarm EventsSystem EventsDenied H/C Request Processing: When an event occurs, the THEMAS system shall identify the eventtype and format an appropriate event message. The THEMAS systemshall record each event by a description and the c urrent systemtime for that event. This information shall be recorded in aMicrosoft® Access® database that shall reside on the supervisor’scomputer. Output: Event Data
(ID=3.1.9) Change Thermostat Setting (SRS -017) Introduction: The THEMAS system shall provide the supervisor a mechanism tochange the temperature setting of any of the thermostats in thesystem. Input: Operational Parameters Processing: The supervisor’s interface shall display the availablethermostats and their individual current temperature settings.The supervisor shall be able to select one of the thermostats andselect a value for the current temperature from a list of validtemperatures. Output: Temperature Data
(ID=3.1.10) Generate Reports (SRS-018) Introduction: The THEMAS shall provide the ability for the supervisor to selectbetween two different types of reports: 1) the operationalhistory of the THEMAS system for the past twelve months and 2) astatistical summary for any selected mont h. Input: Event Data Processing: The supervisor’s interface to the THEMAS system shall provide amechanism to select between an operational history report or astatistical summary report. Either report shall consist of anASCII file whose location and name shall be selectable by theoperator.If the operational history report is selected, the THEMAS systemshall select all the events from the event database, sort theevents by date and time, and create the ASCII report file.If the statistical report is selected, the THEMAS system shallpresent the operator with a list of available months from whichto make a selection. After selecting one of the months, thesystem shall generate the ASCII report file. The statisticalreports shall consist of the following statistics:<itemize><item>The percentage of time each heating and cooling unit was onfor each day of that month.</item><item>For each thermometer, the ratio of the number of requests fora heating and cooling unit that was granted to the number ofrequests for a heating or cooling unit that was denied. Output: Report Data
