(ID=3) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
(ID=3.1) External Interfaces: The product generally requires a mouse and a keyboard for input. Other pointingand input devices are allowable, provided they provide similar functions to amouse and keyboard, namely the ability to move a cursor onscreen to selectbuttons and the ability to type names.The product uses menus, graphics and sounds. The hardware and operatingsystem must provide an 800x600 screen resolution. Sound is not required to playthe game.
(ID=3.1.1) User Interfaces Introduction: The users consist of anyone who wants to play a simple game who knows how tooperate a computer, with a beginning level player starting at age 8, up through anadvanced level player who could be an adult.
(ID=3.1.1.2) Main window: The main window shall provide the following parts: a board and a menu bar.
(ID=3.1.2) Software Interfaces: Not applicable.
(ID=3.1.3) Communications Interfaces: Not applicable.
(ID=3.2) Functional Requirements
(ID=3.2.1) Actions.
(ID=3.2.1.1) Presentation of the board. Description: The board is a rectangular zone where the user could move some blocks. Let x bethe mesure unit. The height of the board game is 5x, its width is 4x : x can't beless than 50 pixels and greater than 100 pixels. The blocks are separated by amarge of 0.1x.There are four square blocks with a side of x.There are four rectangular blocks with the following dimensions : a height of 2xand a width of x.There is one block with the following dimensions : a height of x and a width of 2x.There is one square block with a side of 2x.The board is black and the blocks are yellow.
(ID=3.2.1.2) Block selection Input: Leftclickeddown on a block. Processing: The game state becomes "Block deplacement". Output: None.
(ID=3.2.1.3) Block deselection Input: Leftclickedup on a selected block. Processing: The game state becomes "Block selection". Output: None.
(ID=3.2.1.4) Block movement Input: Mouse movement during the "Block movement" state. Processing: The selected block follows the mouse movement without overlapp the otherblocks and exit of the game zone. The selected block can' mt ove near other blocksat least 0.05x from the others blocks. Output: None.
(ID=3.2.1.5) Undo Action Description: The user can cancel a movement. Input: Menu selection. Processing: The game displays the block positions at the places where they were before thelast movement. This action is consider like a movement. The "undo" action isunvailable if there was no previous movement. Output: New game board display.
(ID=3.2.1.6) Redo Action Description: The user can redo a movement that has been canceled. Input: Menu selection. Processing: The game displays the block positions at the places where they were before thelast movement was canceled. This action is consider like a movement. The redoaction is unvailable, if the previous action wasn't a n "undo" action. Output: New game board display.
(ID=3.2.2) End of the game management
(ID=3.2.2.1) End of the game Description: How the user finishs the game. Input: The great square is moved at the bottom of the board. Processing: All the player statistics are freezed. Output: If the number of block movements of the current player is lower than the highestnumber of block movement recorded in the statistic file, the The "Finish Windowwith Statistcs" is displayed. If not the "Simple finish Window"is displayed.
(ID=3.2.2.2) Finish Window with Statistics. Description: The Finish Window with Statisctis contains a the following text : "You win ! Enteryour name : ", an Edit Box that can contain 20 characters and a pushbutton withthe label "OK". Input: The games is over. Processing: The player clicks on the pushbutton "OK". The player statistics are recorded in thestatistic file of the software. Output: The "finish" window is closed. The statistic window is displayed.
(ID=3.2.2.3) Simple Finish Window Description: The Simple Finish Window contains a the following text : "You win !" and apushbutton with the label "OK". Input: The games is over. Processing: The player clicks on the pushbutton "OK". Output: The Simple Finish Window is closed. The statistic window is displayed.
(ID=3.2.3) Statistics Management.
(ID=3.2.3.1) Player Statistics management Description: The following statistics are recorded during the game : number of block movements since the start. time since the start. Input: A block movement. Processing: The number of block movement in incremented of 1. The difference of time of theblock movement and the previous recorded time is recorded. Output: None.
(ID=3.2.3.2) Game Statistics management Description: The game statistics is composed of 10 player statistics. Input: The Finish Window with Statistics is completed by the player. Processing: The statistics of the player (its name, the block movement number, the timepassed to solve the headache) is recorded in the statistic file. If 10 player statisticsare already recorded, the player statistics of the file with the greatest number ofblock movements is erased. Output: If the file was correctly updated, there is no ouput. If not, like wrong pemissionsor disk full, an error message is displayed.
(ID=3.2.3.3) Statistics erasing Description: The user could erase all the statistics. Input: Menu selection. Processing: The data stored in the statistic file are erased. Output: If the file was correctly updated, there is no ouput. If not, like wrong pemissionsor disk full, an error message is displayed.
(ID=3.2.3.4) Statistic Window. Description: The Player Statistics Window is composed of a listbox of 10 lines. Each line iscomposed of the name of a player, the number of block movement, the time usedby the player to solve the headache.This statistcs are read from the statistic file of the game. Input: End of the game or menu selection. Processing: Window display. Output: None.
(ID=3.2.4) File management
(ID=3.2.4.1) Open game Description: Open a previous saved game. Input: Menu selection. Processing: A dialog box is open : the user could choose a file that contains all the data of thegame previously saved. Output: The board game is redrawaccording to the file data. The player statistics are setto the player statistics of the file data.
(ID=3.2.4.2) Save game Description: Save the current game. Input: Menu selection. Processing: If the game was never saved, the processing is identiqual to the action "Save as...".If not, the following internal data are saved into the previous file that was used toto save the the game : the current positions of the blocks, their last 10000 previous positions, the number of the previous movements and the time passed bythe user to solve the headache. Output: None.
(ID=3.2.4.3) Save game as Description: Save the current game. Input: Menu selection. Processing: A dialog box is open : the user could choose a file that will contain all the data ofthe current game. Next, the following internal data are saved into the file : thecurrent positions of the blocks, their previous positions, the number of theprevious movements and the time passed by the user to solve the headache. Output: None.
(ID=3.2.4.4) Exit Description: Stop the game Input: Menu selection. Processing: If the game is not saved, a dialog box is displayed that asks to the player if hewants to save the game. Two choices are possible : "Yes" and "No". If "Yes" isselected, the action "Save" is processed and the main window disappeared. If "No"is selected, the main window disappeared. Output: None.
(ID=3.2.5) Menu bar
(ID=3.2.5.1) Game menu Description: Contains "Open game ...", "Save Game ...", "Save Game As..." and "Exit". In thisorder. Input: Menu selection. Processing: Action in question is performed : "Open game ..." >action "Open game". "Save Game ..." >action "Save Game". "Save Game As ..." >action "Save game as". "Exit" >action "Exit",. Output: Menu disappears. Requirements of the action determines the continuation.
(ID=3.2.5.2) Action menu Description: Contains "Undo" and "Redo". In this order. The menu selection is unvailable if theassociated action is unvailable. Input: Menu selection. Processing: Action in question is performed : "Undo" >action "Undo". "Redo" >action "Redo". Output: Menu disappears. Requirements of the action determines the continuation.
(ID=3.2.5.3) Statisctis menu Description: Contains "Display" and "Erase". In this order. Input: Menu selection. Processing: Action in question is performed : "Display" >displays the statistic window. "Erase" >erase the statistics. Output: Menu disappears. Requirements of the action determines the continuation.
(ID=3.2.5.4) Help menu Description: Contains "About". Input: Menu selection. Processing: "About Window" is displayed. The "About Windows" is composed of the followingtext "Qheadache 1.0 by JeanPhilippeBrossat jp_brossat@yahoo.fr" Output: Menu disappears. Requirements of the action determines the continuation.
(ID=3.3) Performance Requirements: There can be only one user per machine.
(ID=3.4) Software System Attributes: The software must be portable to the Windows OS.